# Fnordoglargh's Music

## Motivation

Over the years I had the pleasure to work with many different people from all
over the work. Whenever it came to one of my hobbies, music, it was a struggle
to explain what makes it special for me and why I like what I like to people.
This is especially true for the co-workers from the Indian subcontinent.

Imagine you grew up in an isolated bubble like India. You have everything you
need in terms of TV, music or film right in front of you. The market is now
larger than the so-called western world. Coming back to my co-workers; whenever
the topic _music_ came up, most of the time they knew none of the bands I liked.
The same thing is true for myself. I have not even scratched the cultural
surface of music on this world.  Some intricacies will be forever hidden from
me. But that does not mean, that I cannot appreciate it. So this page is mostly
for interested parties who want to journey out of mainstream music... Well, for
most of the time at least. There will be longer sections with classic songs to
explain the evolution of a genre.

### Why not a playlist?

I pondered the ideas of playlists, but you won't get as many cool live versions
e.g. on Spotify. And as of 2023 it also lacks a commentary feature. Here I can
express myself. On Spotify you can find a [black metal
playlist](https://open.spotify.com/playlist/1ZSEFfBTPuhOt2V4CQmtAO) that I made
as challenge for myself: Use only one track per band. That was necessary because
some of the most liked (Black) Metal playlists simply added whole albums which
is unimaginative and boring.

With a few exceptions this is a personal best-of series of artists whose work I
admire and stuff I love and often listen to.

### Live Versions

You might wonder why there are so many live versions for the non-electronic
stuff on the list. The reason is plain and simple; a band has much fewer studio
tricks at their disposal and has to show their mastery of the instruments and
material.

### A Warning and some Notes

* **Warning**: Although I'm trying to use a neutral language here, text quotes,
  song or album titles and the topics explored in the linked songs and videos
  are likely _not safe for work_ (NSFW).
* Some sections in this page mention bands and artists in chronological order.
  You can expect that some bands or artists show up multiple times.
* Some genres are not important or interesting for me. In general you can assume
  that what is listed here has significance for me or musical history.

### Dedication

This page is dedicated to Tippu because he made me start it without recognizing
it. Second is my father because he sparked my own interest in music. One
Saturday he put headphones on me and introduced me to Kraftwerk's
[_Radioactivity_](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Radio-Activity) and [_Sgt.
Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band_](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sgt_Peppers) by
the Beatles. The last one to dedicate this to is my wonderful wife who puts up
with all my "you absolutely have to listen to this". She is very patient, but
still does not love Autechre (which is fine).

### Table of Contents

- [Motivation](#motivation)
  - [Why not a playlist?](#why-not-a-playlist)
  - [Live Versions](#live-versions)
  - [A Warning and some Notes](#a-warning-and-some-notes)
  - [Dedication](#dedication)
  - [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
